---
title: "A Wideband Satellite Maritime Channel Model Simulator"
description: Article published in IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation
#background: /assets/img/banner_background_image.jpg
author: [Fernando Pérez-Fontán, Vicente Pastoriza-Santos, Fernando Machado, Francisco Poza, Norbert Witternigg, Roman Lesjak]
tags: [Publication, Journal, Modeling, Wideband]
---

In this article, we present implementation details of a generative satellite
maritime propagation channel model at L-Band. In an earlier paper
[[1](https://doi.org/10.1109/TAP.2020.3048549)], we presented the
parameterization of the channel model for the narrowband case based on
recordings of GPS L1 C/N0 time-series in different sea state conditions.
Additionally, we performed wider band measurements using GPS E5a (≈ 10
Mcps—chips per second— >20 MHz bandwidth) and obtained estimations of power
delay profiles. Due to lack of dynamic range and delay resolution, in these
measurements, no conclusive information was gathered on the time spreading
caused by the channel. What was clear is that the time spreading was not
significant outside the first signal chip, i.e., ≈ 0.1μs. Still wideband
modeling is required within this spreading range. Now, we want to extend the
model [[1](https://doi.org/10.1109/TAP.2020.3048549)] to the wideband case. To
achieve this goal, we have used a rough surface scattering model applicable to
sea surfaces and employed it to characterize the time dispersion to be expected.
Additionally, we also used this scattering model to help verify the validity of
the existing Doppler spread model. Furthermore, ship movements in the waves play
a role. We try and analyze this issue. Finally, we present a detailed discussion
on various implementation issues we came across when coding the simulator.

Please, follow this link if you would like to read the [full
article](https://doi.org/10.1109/TAP.2021.3118807).
